# Soldier vs. Zombies
#### Video Demo:  <https://youtu.be/cGLX4jmODiE>
#### Description:
Soldier vs. Zombies is a simple game level written in the Lua programming language using the LOVE2D framework. As an avid gamer, it felt natural to take this final project as an opportunity to explore the wonders of game development. It was a process that challenged me each day I worked on it, but all the more satisfying once I finally got everything working.
I tried my best to rely on my own knowledge which I gained through the course of the semester, and therefore coded almost every feature in the game myself. The source code main.lua file includes all of the functions which make the game work, with the most important ones being love.load, love.update, and love.draw. These functions allow LOVE to load assets into the game upon startup, update variables and table parameters each frame, and draw objects on the screen as the player interacts with the environment and characters. The game has several features including the ability to attack, climb ladders, and collect items which behave in different ways. Of course, if you do not attack an enemy as they approach you, the player's sprite transforms into a giant skull and is no longer able to move, indicating their death. Otherwise, if you successfully attack a zombie with your sword, they turn into a small blue cloud and give a confirmation blip sound indicating a valid hit. There is also some key logic implemented to disallow the player to move out of bounds, move laterally on ladders, continue moving up/down on ladders, or attack while climbing. There are two items which the player can collect, one of which is necessary to complete the level. That item is of course the key, which will open the door on the bottom right of the screen. Once the key is collected, the door will open and the play can leave the level. The yellow powerup item is an interesting feature, because it changes how the player interacts with enemies. Instead of requiring a sword attack to kill an enemy, while powered up the player can simply walk into an enemy and achieve the same effect. The player's sprite also changes to a gold color indicated they are invincible. A very strong ability indeed, it was one I wanted to incorporate from the beginning because it resembled powerups I have seen in many games that I have played. 
This project was a fruitful learning experience because it forced me to avoid hard-coding. Since I wanted to incorporate several instances of the same object i.e enemy zombies, there was no way to achieve it properly without creating tables to store parameters separately and creating functions which called upon specific object instances. To explain further, it was imperative that upon attacking a zombie on the first floor that the zombies on the second, third, or fourth floor did not die as well. Every object had to be treated as an object of the same class so to speak, though these concepts do not actually exist in Lua. It also challenged me to consider corner cases, where maybe the player could do something strange, whether intentional or not, that impacts the game in a way which is not intended. This is where I incorporated the logic for ladder climbing to ensure the player is actually on the ladder, and out-of-bounds checks. 
If I had more time, I would have worked on the aesthetics of the game a bit more. I did not create a menu of sorts or even a button to reset the level, but I am proud of what I created nonetheless. The logic all came from my brain, and certainly represents the growth I have experienced throughout the course of the semester. It also may have been more interesting to add different abilities. I could have create a few more functions for a jump ability or even an ability that lets the player shoot a projectile instead of having to swing the sword to attack enemies. From there, I could have created a function that randomizes the ability the player receives when collecting the powerup. However, for the amount of time I invested in the project I am satisfied with the result. Of course, I could not have done it at all if it was not for Harvard and their amazing curriculum!

*Just a sidenote, the main.lua file is located in the 'games' directory alongside a few other Lua files for games I wrote up with the help of tutorials for practice while I was learning Lua!